Jack Ma, the richest man in China and founder of the e-commerce company Alibaba, is a big fan of extreme overwork. He recently praised China’s “996” practice, so called because it refers to those who put in 12-hour days — 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. — six days a week. This “is not a problem,” he said in a recent blog post, instead calling it a “blessing.”

~[翻译](中国首富、电子商务公司阿里巴巴创始人马云非常推崇极度过劳的工作方式。他最近赞扬了中国的“996”，意思是每天工作12小时，从早9点到晚9点，每周工作6天。他在最近的一篇博客文章中写道，这“不是问题”，而是一种“福报”。)

The response from others in China was swift. “If all enterprises enforce a 996 schedule, no one will have children,” one person argued on the same platform. “Did you ever think about the elderly at home who need care, the children who need company?” It even prompted a response from Chinese state media, which reminded everyone, “The mandatory enforcement of 996 overtime culture not only reflects the arrogance of business managers, but also is unfair and impractical.”

~[翻译](这在中国立刻引发了反响。“如果所有企业都996，就没人生孩子了，”有人在同一平台上表示。“你想没想过还要照顾老人，陪孩子？”这甚至引起了中国官方媒体的回应，它提醒所有人：“强制灌输‘996’的加班文化，不仅体现了企业管理者的傲慢，也不实际、不公平。”)

Managers who think like Mr. Ma can be found the world over. Here at home, Elon Musk, a co-founder of Tesla, has argued that “nobody ever changed the world on 40 hours a week.” Uber reportedly used to use the internal mantra “Work smarter, harder and longer.” （It’s now just “smarter” and “harder.”） The company has also rebranded second jobs as clever “side hustles.” WeWork decorates its co-working spaces with phrases like, “Don’t stop when you’re tired, stop when you are done.” Other tech and business gurus try to sell us on “toil glamour.”

~[翻译](像马云这样思考的管理者在世界各地都有。在美国，特斯拉（Tesla）联合创始人埃隆·马斯克（Elon Musk）曾表示，“没有人能靠每周工作40小时改变世界。”据报道，优步（Uber）曾使用“更聪明、更努力、更长久地工作”作为内部口号（现在只剩下“更聪明”和“更努力”）。该公司还把第二职业重新塑造为聪明的“副业”。WeWork用来装饰其合作办公空间的，是这样的格言：“不要在累的时候停下来，要在完成的时候停下来。”其他科技和商业导师也试图向我们推销“辛劳的魅力”。)

The truth is that they’re all wrong. Workers certainly suffer when forced to put in extreme hours. But business fares just as poorly. No one benefits from people pushing themselves to the brink of exhaustion.

~[翻译](事实上他们都错了。被迫加班肯定会令工人痛苦。但企业从中获得的收益也相当小。没有谁能从处于精疲力竭边缘的人身上受益。)


One of the reasons Mr. Ma says he supports 996 culture is people who work longer get the “rewards of hard work.” But they are apparently not in store for monetary rewards: A group of academics just released research finding that working longer hours than someone else in the same job doesn’t earn you more money; instead it leads to a 1 percent decrease in wages. Another analysis similarly found that after 40 hours a week, there isn’t a clear financial return to clocking more hours. Excessive work effort has even been linked, perversely, to worse career outcomes.

~[翻译](马云说，他支持“996”文化的原因之一是，工作时间更长的人会得到努力工作的“回报”。但是等待他们的显然不是金钱回报：一组学者刚刚公布的研究发现，在同一个岗位上工作时间比其他人长并不会让你赚到更多钱；相反，它会导致工资下降1%。另一项类似的分析发现，每周工作40小时之外增加的工作时间并没有明显的经济回报。不合人意的是，过度工作甚至与更糟糕的职业结果相关。)


The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has also warned that putting in extra hours is associated with poorer health, including weight gain and higher alcohol and tobacco use, and increased injury, illness and even mortality. Health researchers have found that overwork is linked to a higher risk of heart disease and stroke.

~[翻译](美国疾病控制与预防中心（Centers for Disease Control and Prevention）也警告，加班与健康状况变差相关，包括体重增加，烟酒消费量增加，以及受伤、患病甚至死亡增加。健康研究人员发现，工作过度会增加患心脏病和中风的风险。)


Mr. Ma went so far in his post as to say that those who aren’t willing to put in such long hours need not apply to work at Alibaba. He’s only shooting himself in the foot.

~[翻译](马云甚至表示，不愿长时间工作的人不必申请阿里巴巴的工作。他这是在搬起石头砸自己的脚。)


There’s a ceiling on how much more someone can get done by simply spending more time at work. After about 48 hours a week, a worker’s output drops sharply, according to a Stanford economist. Other research has appeared to support this finding. While there may be an initial burst of activity from overworking, people who work more than 55 hours a week perform worse than those who go home at a normal hour and get some rest.


~[翻译](一个人在工作上多花时间，究竟能够多做多少事，这是有上限的。斯坦福大学的一位经济学家说，一周工作48小时后，工人的产出会大幅下降。其他研究似乎也支持这一发现。超时工作在一开始可能带来大量活跃劳动，但每周工作超过55小时的人比在正常时间回家休息的人表现要差。)


There are other costs to employers. An elder-care facility in Sweden that tried a six-hour workday reportedly found that nurses took fewer sick days and were more productive. Fatigued workers cost employers $100 billion in lost productivity.


~[翻译](雇主还要支付其他成本。据报道，瑞典一家老年护理机构尝试每天工作6小时，结果发现护士请病假更少，工作效率更高。在美国，疲劳的工人使雇主损失了价值1000亿美元的生产力。)


This all became obvious to the American business community long ago. As strong unions pushed for a 40-hour workweek in the 1800s, business leaders who acquiesced found that their companies became significantly more profitable and productive. In 1914, Henry Ford took the lessons of these natural experiments to heart and cut shifts in his plants to eight hours without reducing pay, leading to an output boom. By 1938, that 40-hour workweek was enshrined into law by the Fair Labor Standards Act, which requires time-and-a-half pay beyond that threshold.

~[翻译](美国商界很久以前就看到了这一点。19世纪，强大的工会推动每周工作40小时，默许这一做法的商界领袖发现，公司的赢利能力和生产率显著提高。1914年，亨利·福特（Henry Ford）吸取这些自然实验的经验，在不减薪的情况下，将工人每班工作时间减少到8小时，带来了产量激增。到1938年，《公平劳动标准法》（Fair Labor Standards Act）将每周40小时工作时间写入了法律，并要求超过这个标准的工作时间需支付1.5倍的报酬。)


The strength of the law has been whittled away over recent decades, however, to the point that millions fewer Americans are guaranteed extra pay for extra work than in 1979. That allows employers to push more employees to put in more hours essentially free. President Barack Obama proposed an update in 2016 that would have offered new or strengthened overtime protection to over 13 million workers; it was struck down by the courts, and President Trump’s version, proposed in March, will help 8.2 million fewer workers, thanks to a lower salary threshold and a failure to index it to inflation.

~[翻译](然而，近几十年来，这项法律的效力被逐渐削弱，以至于与1979年相比，其额外工作有获得额外报酬保障的美国人减少了数百万。这使得雇主可以推动更多员工花更多时间工作，基本上是免费的。美国总统贝拉克·奥巴马（Barack Obama）在2016年提出了一项更新方案，为逾1300万名工人提供新的或得以强化的加班保护；该法案被法院否决，特朗普总统今年3月提出的版本能够帮助的工人要少820万人，原因是较低的工资门槛，而且未能与通胀挂钩。)


Business leaders seem to have forgotten the lessons they learned in the past: Humane schedules benefit employee and employer alike. China may have its 996 culture, but the United States doesn’t fare much better. Nearly a third of us put in 45 hours or more each week, while nearly 10 million clock 60 or more. The average European puts in between 7 percent and 19 percent less time on the job.

~[翻译](商业领袖们似乎已经忘记了过去学到的教训：富有人情味的时间安排对员工和雇主都有好处。中国或许有自己的“996”文化，但美国的情况也好不到哪里去。近三分之一的人每周工作45小时或更长时间，近1000万人每周工作60小时或更长时间。欧洲人的平均工作时间要少7%到19%。)


Policies like a strong overtime rule can help us return to a world where everyone does better by working less. Business leaders like Jack Ma have to get with the program, too. Glorifying those who sacrifice nearly all of their waking hours at the altar of work harms everyone, from the chief executive to the custodian.

~[翻译](像严格的加班规定这样的政策可以帮助我们回到这样的世界：所有人都通过减少工作来提高效率。马云这样的商界领袖也必须参与进来。如果赞美那些把醒着的时间都奉献给工作祭坛的人，这样的做法会令所有人受害，从首席执行官到看门人都不能幸免。)
