Post offices in the rich world

Going postal

Amazon is not the only threat to universal mail services
~[翻译](发达国家的邮局

喋血邮局

亚马逊并非普遍邮政服务的唯一威胁)

IT MAY be hard to imagine a world without cheap postal services, but 200 years ago sending mail was a luxury. Posting a letter from London to Edinburgh cost an average daily wage. In 1840, after a proposal by Rowland Hill, an inventor, Britain launched the Penny Post, the world’s first universal mail service. The state-run post office was given a mail monopoly in return for delivering letters to any address in the country at the same rate. Cheaper postage proved wildly popular and the flows of information it enabled boosted economic growth. But the scheme’s finances proved controversial. The low cost of the service hit profits and the government introduced income tax to fill the fiscal hole.

~[翻译](一个没有平价邮政服务的世界或许很难想象，但在200年前，寄邮件还是一种奢侈。从伦敦寄一封信到爱丁堡的花费相当于当时普通人一天的收入。1840年，在发明家罗兰·希尔（Rowland Hill）的提议下，英国推出了“一便士邮政”（Penny Post），这是世界上第一个普及邮件服务。国营邮局以统一资费向国内任意地址寄件，并以此获得了邮政的垄断经营权。结果，平价邮政服务大受欢迎，所带来的信息流动更是促进了经济增长。但这套方案在财务方面却备受争议。邮政服务靠低资费难以盈利，政府决定开征所得税来弥补财政亏空。)

That did not stop the idea of a “universal service obligation” for post spreading across the entire rich world over the next century. At the industry’s peak, post offices worldwide delivered nearly 350bn items of mail in 2007. But over the past decade this model has come under threat from falling letter volumes and from gig-economy firms and e-commerce giants expanding into parcel delivery.

~[翻译](这并未阻挡之后的一个世纪里履行邮政“普遍服务义务”的理念在富裕国家中传扬开来。在邮政行业还处于巅峰期的2007年，全球邮局递送了近3500亿个邮件。但在过去十年里，该模式受到重重威胁，除了信函邮寄量大减，零工经济公司和电子商务巨头也开始向包裹递送领域扩张。)

As a result, the postal service in America has again become controversial. On April 12th President Donald Trump set up a task force to examine the finances of the state-owned United States Postal Service (USPS). In March and April he has attacked Amazon, an e-commerce giant, on Twitter for costing USPS “massive amounts of money” for delivering its items. Analysts think that claim is dodgy. Mr Trump has a well-known dislike of Amazon and its boss, Jeff Bezos, who also owns theWashington Post, no fan of the president. But it is true that USPS is in serious financial trouble. Since 2008 revenues have fallen by 35% in real terms and it last made a profit in 2006. 

~[翻译](结果，美国邮政服务再次成为争议焦点。4月12日，特朗普成立工作小组，审查国有的美国邮政局（以下简称USPS）的财务状况。三四月间，他在Twitter上怒斥电商巨头亚马逊，说USPS为给亚马逊递送货物亏了“很多钱”。分析人士认为这种指责很可疑。众所周知，特朗普向来不喜欢亚马逊及其老板贝佐斯——贝佐斯拥有的《华盛顿邮报》对这位总统很不买账。但USPS确实面临严重的财务困境。自2008年起，它的实际收入下降了35%，最近一次盈利已远在2006年。)


Post offices elsewhere in the rich world suffer the same underlying problems, yet are more financially successful. Letter volumes have fallen at a rate of between 3% and 5% a year across the developed world over the past decade, says Brody Buhler of Accenture, a consultancy. Up to 80% of letter volumes could be lost before a floor is reached, says Rob Wolleswinkel of BCG, another consultancy.

~[翻译](其他富裕国家的邮政系统也面临同样的深层问题，只是财务状况要好些。咨询公司埃森哲（Accenture）的布罗迪·布勒（Brody Buhler）表示，过去十年，发达国家的信函量每年下降3％到5％。波士顿咨询公司的劳勃·沃利斯文科（Rob Wolleswinkel）认为，在触底之前，多达80％的信函量可能会消失。)


Most of the decline has been due to bank statements and utility bills going online and personal letters and greeting cards going out of fashion. Junk mail has also begun to crumble due to the rise of digital advertising on smartphones. Online government services are likely to reduce demand for first-class letters even further. Denmark scrapped that service in 2016. 

~[翻译](下滑的主要原因是银行账单和水电燃气账单已逐渐转为电子账单，私人信函和贺卡也不再流行。由于智能手机数字广告的兴起，邮寄垃圾广告也开始走向消亡。政府推出的各种在线服务很可能会进一步降低对一类邮件的需求。丹麦已于2016年取消了次日收信。)


Parcels could come to the rescue. In 2014-16 global package volumes surged by 48%, reckons Pitney Bowes, a tech firm. But unlike with letters, most post offices do not have a monopoly in parcels, so margins are thinner. The machines needed to sort bulky parcels require heavy investment that strains cash-strapped post offices. 


~[翻译](包裹寄递服务或许可以救场。据科技公司必能宝（Pitney Bowes）估计，2014年至2016年间，全球包裹寄送量激增48%。但是，不同于信函，大多数邮局在包裹投递上没有垄断地位，所以利润较薄。分拣大件包裹的机器需要大量投资，资金短缺的邮局对此力不从心。)


Their struggles are also due to delivery startups. Investors are pouring money into gig-economy couriers that use cheaper, self-employed drivers. BCG reckons that investment in such firms grew from $200m to nearly $4bn in 2014-16. Post offices, weighed down by strident unions, high labour costs and costly networks of sorting centres, struggle to compete.


~[翻译](快递创业公司也是令邮局陷入困境的原因。投资者正大笔押注于采用更廉价的自雇司机的零工快递公司。据波士顿咨询估计，从2014年到2016年，对这类公司的投资从两亿美元增至近40亿美元。邮局受强势工会、高人力成本和成本高昂的分拣中心网络所累，难以与之竞争。)


But it is not yet clear that gig couriers will survive in the long term, says David Jinks of ParcelHero, a parcel broker. In March two American startups, UberRUSH, a service owned by Uber, a ride-hailing app, and Shyp, shut themselves down due to a lack of demand. Bad publicity about working conditions is forcing others, such as DPD of Britain, to introduce holiday and sick pay. Tighter labour markets may make it harder to find enough cheap drivers to compete with the postal services. 

~[翻译](但英国快递代理公司ParcelHero的大卫·金克斯（David Jinks）表示，零工快递公司能否长久生存仍是未知数。3月，网约车公司优步旗下的UberRUSH和Shyp这两家美国创业公司因需求不足分别关停和倒闭。关于员工工作条件的负面报道则迫使英国DPD等其他快递创业公司为员工增加带薪年假和病假等福利。由于劳动力市场趋紧，这些公司可能更难找到足够多的廉价司机与邮政服务竞争。)


E-commerce giants may prove a greater threat. The biggest risk is not that post offices bid for their business too cheaply, as Mr Trump suggests. It is that they lose their custom completely. Amazon has already hit Britain’s Royal Mail hard by starting its own door-to-door deliveries. In California it has launched a grocery-delivery service as a way of gaining greater scale to deliver its own e-commerce parcels itself. The biggest threat of all may come from Amazon’s Chinese rival, Alibaba, which is injecting $15bn into its own delivery arm, Cainiao, and aims to expand beyond China. By doing their own deliveries in cities, where profits are juicier, these firms could leave less money on the table for post offices to cross-subsidise rural services, where costs are higher.

~[翻译](电商巨头也许会是更大的威胁。最大的风险倒不是如特朗普所说的邮局以过低的价格竞标电商巨头的快递业务，而是邮局完全丧失这些业务。亚马逊已自立门户提供送货上门服务，对英国皇家邮政造成重创。在加州，亚马逊推出了杂货递送服务，借此扩大递送自有电商包裹的规模。而最大的威胁也许来自亚马逊的中国竞争对手阿里巴巴。该公司向旗下快递业务“菜鸟”注资150亿美元，并计划向海外拓展。通过在利润更丰厚的城市地区自营快递业务，这些公司可能会分流邮局的收入，让它们难以交叉补贴成本更高的农村服务。)


The answer to these challenges is not to shield postal services from competition. Four out of the world’s five fastest-growing legacy firms—Singapore Post, Poste Italiane, bpost of Belgium and Austrian Post—are privately owned and face rivals. Royal Mail, which was privatised earlier this decade, is using gig-economy staff to deliver parcels and is investing in startups to improve its services, says Daniel Roeska of Bernstein, a research firm. Although Deutsche Post DHL of Germany will be 30% more labour-efficient in a decade’s time, Frank Appel, its chief executive, insists that the growth of e-commerce will keep his existing workforce fully employed. 

~[翻译](要应对这些挑战，答案不是保护邮政服务免于竞争。全球增长最快的五大传统邮政企业中有四家（新加坡邮政、意大利邮政、比利时邮政和奥地利邮政）是私营公司，且不乏竞争对手。研究公司盛博的分析师丹尼尔·罗斯卡(Daniel Roeska) 称，于2013年私有化的英国皇家邮政目前以零工模式聘用员工递送包裹，同时也在投资创业公司来改善自身服务。虽然德国邮政DHL在未来十年内会将劳动效率提高30%，但其首席执行官弗兰克·阿佩尔（Frank Appel）坚称，电子商务的发展将令现有员工得到充分就业。)